---
original_url: http://compression.ru/video/codec_comparison/h_264_comments_en.html
title: Selected Comments for first MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 Video Codecs Comparison
description: Comments on 1st MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 video codecs comparison
preview_img: /assets/img/codecs/mpeg4-avc-h264-2004-comments/preview.png
subprojects: reports avc
---

# Selected comments for first MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 video codecs comparison

## Comments

Here are some comments from the lot of letters that we receive about
H.264 Video Codecs Comparison:

*Hello,  
First of all, thanks for making it public your interesting study on
codec comparison...*

<div style="text-align: right">
Paco Gomez<br/>
Technical Director<br/>
VISUAL TOOLS S.A.
</div>

*I read your study with great interest. My understanding is that this
information is intended to be public -- I suggest sending email about
the study to the JVT experts and MP4Tech email reflectors.*

<div style="text-align: right">
Gary Sullivan<br/>
Microsoft Corporation,<br/>
Chair of JVT
</div>

*Hello everybody,  
I looked into your report and find it very interesting. My company is
trying to implement video codecs in SW on embedded CPUs, in our case the
TriMedia VLIW processor. What is relevant for us is not only the video
quality that can be achieved, but also the CPU resources required to do
the encoding. It would be interesting to bring this aspect into future
comparisons. I.e. which encoder implements the best video quality /
implementation complexity tradeoffs.*

<div style="text-align: right">
Torsten Fink<br/>
TriMedia Center of Excellence<br/>
Philips Semiconductors
</div>

*I am Seung Hwan Kim, a senior engineer of Samsung Electronics, Korea. I
am in charge of evaluation of video codec. I have read your document
"AVC/H.264 Video Codecs Comparison". It is very helpful for me.*

<div style="text-align: right">
Seung Hwan Kim<br/>
Senior Engineer<br/>
Samsung Electronics
</div>

*Dear all,  
"MPEG4 AVC/H.264 Video Codecs Comparison", CS MSU Graphics&Media Lab,
Video Group, Moscow, 11/01/2005  
I got your report from the website. It is really a great job...*

<div style="text-align: right">
Jason Wang<br/>
MultiVision Intelligent Surveillance
</div>

*Greetings,  
I am a researcher at the Boeing Company in Seattle, Washington. We have
been doing some preliminary studies on a variety of video codecs
including a few versions of the MPEG4 AVC and, while doing an Internet
search, I discovered your excellent report. I was very impressed with
the thoroughness of it ...  
Thank you again for the excellent report...*

<div style="text-align: right">
Don Schultz<br/>
The Boeing Company<br/>
7E7 Cabin Systems R&D
</div>

## Contacts

E-mail: <videocodec-testing@graphics.cs.msu.ru>


