---
original_url: http://compression.ru/video/codec_comparison/codecs_faq_en.html
title: MSU Video Codecs Comparison FAQ
description: FAQ on video codecs comparison
preview_img: /assets/img/codecs/faq/preview.png
---

# MSU Video Codecs Comparison<br/>Frequently Asked Questions

-   **Q: Why do you use exactly PSNR metric in the comparison?**

    A: There are several important reasons for it:

    -   First, PSNR is THE ONLY GENERALLY ACCEPTED metric nowadays used
        for codecs comparison. To become certain of that you may look
        through any scientific articles or drafts of the new standards
        (H.264, for example). So using PSNR measures provides clear and
        unique interpretation by any professional in the codecs scope.
        Actually we use special non-standard metrics in our researches.
        Moreover we create metrics ourselves. But if we presented all
        the measures in some "MSU metric-3" it would far not improve
        clearness and value of the comparison.
    -   Second, along with having several drawbacks PSNR can be
        calculated rather quickly. This is very essential, because all
        other metrics that more or less reflect visual perception need
        much more time for calculation (up to dozens of times more).
        We've spent 11 days to perform all the calculations for the
        first test using PSNR and we are not ready yet to spend
        something like 110 days on it :) Of course it is possible to
        reduce the number of the testing video sequences but it would
        make the adequacy of the estimation worse.

    But considering the fact that computers are becoming more and more
    powerful we are planning to add new non-standard metrics to our
    comparison. So have patience!

-   **Q: Why don't you consider some certain types of video in the
    comparison?**

    A: We haven't had time to do it yet. Till this moment we've covered
    with tests only different types of DVD ripped movies and have left
    animation and video received from tuner without attention. We'll try
    to increase the variety of tested videos if we find time and free
    computers to perform calculations.

-   **Q: You've mistakes in the comparison!**

    A: Yes, this could have happened. Please be so kind and report about
    them to
    <videocodec-testing@graphics.cs.msu.ru>!
    We'll appreciate it a lot.

-   **Q: You should have performed the comparison in another way!**

    A: Your approach might also make sense, but we don't have a
    possibility now to implement it. Try doing it yourself! We can even
    place your results on our site if they prove to be good.

-   **Q: There are some graphs for some sequences in the comparison but
    there are no same graphs for another sequence. Can I somehow get to
    see them?**

    A: Alas, if we had placed graphs for ALL the measures that we had
    done for the comparison, we would have got a difficult-to-read
    1000-paged document. That's why we used only a subset of all the
    graphs in the comparison. But we have all of them in our laboratory
    and we can share them and other additional information that hasn't
    been included in the comparison with those people who in their turn
    help us. These are, for example, the companies that had provided
    their codecs for the testing or people who have sent a lot of
    remarks. We won't be sending anything for nothing, we have no time
    for it! We are busy working on the new projects and performing new
    tests.

-   **Q: Why being dated September 2004 did the first test appear much
    later?**

    A: The first test contained too much information and it took us long
    to study the results, and to choose what to include in the final
    document. However we're going to release further results with some
    delay as well. But this time the reason will be different: we want
    to give companies that have provided us with their codecs a chance
    to fix bugs that we find in the codecs during the testing. (We find
    bugs rather frequently during the testing and report about them to
    the codec's producer.)

-   **Q: It's all clear to me, you've described all the codecs in
    details, thanks a lot! But which codec is the best after all?**

    A: Thanks for your warm words :) But the question "what codec is the
    best" is not correct and the comparison clearly illustrates this
    fact. Different codecs with different settings provide best results
    for different type of video. There are no any universal codecs that
    would outperform all other codecs for any given video sequence. We
    propose just a detailed report of the testing which other companies
    usually provide only for money. All the conclusions you should make
    yourself.

## Contacts

E-mail: <videocodec-testing@graphics.cs.msu.ru>


