---
original_url: http://compression.ru/video/codec_comparison/msu_vicos_en.html
title: Video Codec Scoring System (ViCoS)
description: Automatically evaluate quality of
             modern video codec and video filters
preview_img: /assets/img/codecs/vicos/preview.png
---
# Video Codec Scoring System ViCoS

## Introduction

This system is developped and supported by [YUVsoft
Corp](http://yuvsoft.com).  
Detailed information is available at [ViCoS
page](http://vicos.yuvsoft.com)

Main purpose of the system is to automatically evaluate quality of
modern video codec and video filters using objective quality metrics and
sequences modification. Both overall quality of the codec and quality of
separate codec parts can be analyzed using the system. Same framework
can be used for codec external options analysis and best presets
automatically selection for given test set.

## Use Cases

Main use cases of the ViCoS system are the following:

-   [Video Codec Comparison and
    Evaluation](/codecs/vicos.html#comparison_usecase)
-   [Video Codec
    Analysis](/codecs/vicos.html#analysis_usecase)
-   [Presets Selection and
    Analysis](/codecs/vicos.html#presets_usecase)

### Video Codec Comparison and Evaluation

Video codec comparison and evaluation is important task both for video
codec developers and major users. Video codecs are complex entities and
require complex methods of evaluation. Number of important tasks should
be solved for correct video comparison, such as: sequences and bitrate
selection, correct visual quality estimation and comparison, storing and
reusing produced data and many others. Our system is designed to
automate process of codecs comparison. Following actions should be done
for that:

-   Define codecs and presets. Any codec, which can be launch using
    batch files, are suitable for using in ViCoS system.
-   Define sequences. Number of formats is supported including I420
    colorspaces and interlaced sequences.
-   Define schedule, which includes lists of codecs, presets, sequences,
    bitrates and metrics.
-   Start the system. It will launch corresponding codecs and calculate
    defined metrics. System is stable: you can stop it any time without
    significant data losses
-   Use the results in textual form for further processing or in binary
    form for reusage with the system.
-   Use MATLAB Visualization Toolbox for fast results analysis

### Video Codec Analysis

Video codec analysis is next step after codec comparison. It is used for
better understanding of codec strong and weak places, get additional
information of different codec's part such as Motion Estimation
algorithm, Rate Control algorithms and so on.

We use natural sequences modifications and synthetic sequences with
known characteristics to analyze codecs in different ways. There are
several levels of analysis results understanding:

-   System provides final score for codecs, which includes results of
    selected by user analyzers.
-   More information can be found in analyzers scores and detailed
    analyzer reports.
-   Last level of results analysis is per-frame and per-sequence metrics
    values for all performed launches.

### Presets Selection and Analysis

Presets analysis is used for tuning of video codec as finished product.
We used description of codec's parameters to dynamically create codec's
presets and launch codecs to get presets characteristics, such as
encoding visual quality and encoding speed. Following tasks can be
solved using this part of the system:

-   Selection of best preset with fixed speed or fastest preset with
    fixed quality. Such selection is useful during codec's comparison.
-   Best presets selection for all tradeoffs between speed and quality.
    It is useful for default presets generation.
-   Analysis of codecs parameters including use cases of usage, overall
    parameter performance, etc.

## System Customization

Flexible customization is available for ViCoS system purchasing. There
are five different editions, which can be optimal in different use
cases. See ViCoS at [YUVsoft Corp.](http://vicos.yuvsoft.com) for more
information about editions.

Additional features can be implemented for customers by special request.

## Contacts

E-mail: <videocodec-testing@graphics.cs.msu.ru>