---
original_url: http://compression.ru/video/filters.htm
title: MSU Video Group / Video data filtering and compession
description: 
preview_img: /assets/img/filters/video-filters/preview.png
---

# Video filtering and compression by MSU Video Group

* Group Leader: Dr. Dmitriy Vatolin


## MSU/YUVsoft Video Filters Available for Companies

We are working with Intel, Samsung, RealNetworks and other companies on
adapting our filters other video processing algorithms for specific
video streams, applications and hardware like TV-sets, graphics cards,
etc. Some of such projects are non-exclusive. Also we have internal
researches. Commonly we develop a whole family of some kind of a filter.
Generally there are also versions optimized for PC and hardware
implementations (ASIC/FPGA/DSP). Please let us know via <video@graphics.cs.msu.ru> if you are interested in acquiring a license for such filters or making a
custom R&D project on video processing, compression, computer vision.

-   **[Auto Segmentation (info
    only)](/video_filters/segmentation.html)**  
    Interest in advanced interactivity with multimedia data
    significantly increased last years. This cause an advent of new
    standards proposing the functionality for manipulation with
    multimedia data (an example of such a standard is MPEG4). That is
    why segmentation algorithms find its application in wide range of
    areas including content-based representation of multimedia data,
    improvement of coding efficiency in video compression standards,
    sophisticated query and retrieval of video and other content-based
    functionalities for multimedia applications.
-   **[Advanced FRC (info
    only)](/other/advanced-frame-rate-converter.html)**  
    FRC (Frame Rate Conversion) algorithms are used in compression,
    video format conversion, quality enhancement, stereo vision, etc.
    The most popular application is format conversion. This is the case
    when FRC is used in order to convert the frame rate of video stream.
    It is needed for example in order to playback 50Hz video sequence
    using TV set with 100Hz frame rate.
-   **[Deinterlacer, or i-scan  p-scan converter (info
    only)](/video_filters/deinterlacing.html)**  
    This filter converts interlaced video to progressive. It can be
    applied to video digitizing, scaling (transcoding), outputing
    interlaced video to progressive displays (LCD monitors/TV sets,
    plasma panels, etc). The filter is compared with Smart Deinterlacing
    included in about 90% of DVD -&gt; DivX converters. Tuning of the
    filter to achieve industrial-quality conversion was done in a
    collaboration with Samsung.
-   **[Old Film Restoration (info
    only)](/video_filters/old-film-recover.html)**  
    The filter is intended to recover video digitized from an old film
    by removing vertical scratches, noise, tapes defect and other
    artifacts taking place in old cinema movies.
-   **[Tuner TV Restore filter (info
    only)](/video_filters/tuner-tv-restore.html)**  
    The filter is intended to recover video captured by a TV Tuner.
-   **[Panorama filter (info
    only)](/video_filters/panorama.html)**  
    The filter is for contruction of a panorama image of a scene from
    video which is the only input. Output of the filter is a big picture
    that contains all scene.
-   **[Video2Photo filter (info
    only)](/video_filters/super-resolution-video2photo.html)**  
    This filter is intended to create still images from videos with
    higher resolution and better quality than original video. Such an
    improvement is achieved not only due to intelligent processing of
    information from one selected frame, but also using neighboring
    frames.
-   **[SuperResolution filter (info
    only)](/video_filters/super-resolution.html)**  
    This filter increases resolution of video sequence improving details
    and reducing artifacts. It gives significantly better results than
    typical static upsampling methods because of utilization of useful
    information from neigboring frames. The algorithm is a way slower
    than static image upsampling methods, but has significantly lower
    complexity and better speed than other Super Resolution algorithms
    known to us.
-   **[SuperPrecision filter (info
    only)](/video_filters/bit-depth-expansion.html)**  
    The filter is targeted at increasing the colour depth of video (bits
    per pixel) while preserving details and borders. It is useful for
    displaying video on high contrast devices like plasma panels. The
    filter performs reconstruction of image, not just some sort of noise
    mixing.
-   **[Motion Phase filter (description,
    examples)](/video_filters/motion-phase.html)**  
    This filter allows to extract and show different phases of some
    object's movement simultaneously on each frame. The filter can be
    useful, for example, for composing of sport teaching films.
-   **[Deshaker filter (description,
    examples)](/video_filters/deshaker.html)**  
    This filter is for stabilization of video, or removing of shaking.
    The feature of our filter is reconstruction of border areas using
    information from neighboring frames or just previous frames (for
    1-pass mode).
